# Office365 API audit log collector

Subscribe to and collect logs from Office365 auditing APIs (https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/office-365/office-365-management-activity-api-reference).
Currently has the option to output to a network socket (when using e.g. Graylog) or a file. 
Feel free to contribute other outputs if you happen to build any. Default behavior is to retrieve logs of the last 24 hours.

## Roadmap:

I was unable to work on this repo for a while. Now that I'm back I want to make some improvements and add some features:
- Add Azure Analytics Workspace output
- Clear backlog of issues
- Add start- and end date parameter
- Keep track of when script last ran, automatically adjust start date to that that moment (so as not to miss any logs)

## Latest changes:
- Integrated bug fixes from pull requests, thank you!
  - Fix busy loop when connection problem by @furiel
  - New urlencoding for client_secret by @kalimer0x00 
- Fixed bug where script exited prematurely
- Don't start graylog output unnecessarily
- Fixed file output

## Use cases:

- Ad-lib log retrieval;
- Scheduling regular execution to retrieve the full audit trail.

## Features:

- Subscribe to the audit logs of your choice through the subscription script;
- Collect General, Exchange, Sharepoint, Azure active directory and/or DLP audit logs through the collector script;
- Output to file or to a Graylog input (i.e. send the logs over a network socket)

## Requirements:
- Office365 tenant;
- Azure application created for this script (see instructions)
- AzureAD tenant ID;
- Client key of the new Azure application;
- Secret key (created in the new Azure application, see instructions);
- App permissions to access the API's for the new Azure application (see instructions);
- Subscription to the API's of your choice (General/Sharepoint/Exchange/AzureAD/DLP, 
run AuditLogSubscription script and follow the instructions).

## Instructions:

### Creating an application in Azure:
- Create the app registration: 
  - Create app registration itself under Azure AD (own tenant only works fine for single tenant)
  - Create app secret (only shown once upon creation, store it somewhere safe)
  - Grant your new app permissions to read the Office API's: 
      - Graph: AuditLog.Read.All
      - Office 365 Management APIs: ActivityFeed.Read
      - Office 365 Management APIs: ActivityFeed.ReadDlp
- Use the 'AuditLogSubscriber' script to subscribe to the audit API's of your choice
  - You will need tenant id, client key and secret key for this
- You can now run the script and retrieve logs. 


### (optional) Creating a Graylog input

If you are running this script to get audit events in Graylog you will need to create a Graylog input. If not, just skip this.

- Create a 'raw/plaintext TCP' input;
- Enter the IP and port you want to receive the logs on (you can use these in the script);
- All other settings can be left default.


### Running the script:

- Retrieve all logs and send to a network socket / Graylog server:
`python3 AuditLogCollector.py 'tenant_id' 'client_key' 'secret_key' --exchange --dlp --azure_ad --general --sharepoint -p 'random_publisher_id' -g -gA 10.10.10.1 -gP 6000`

#### Script options:
```
usage: AuditLogCollector.py [-h] [--general] [--exchange] [--azure_ad]
                            [--sharepoint] [--dlp] [-p publisher_id]
                            [-l log_path] [-f] [-fP file_output_path] [-g]
                            [-gA graylog_address] [-gP graylog_port]
                            tenant_id client_key secret_key`
                            
positional arguments:
  tenant_id             Tenant ID of Azure AD
  client_key            Client key of Azure application
  secret_key            Secret key generated by Azure application`

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --general             Retrieve General content
  --exchange            Retrieve Exchange content
  --azure_ad            Retrieve Azure AD content
  --sharepoint          Retrieve SharePoint content
  --dlp                 Retrieve DLP content
  -p publisher_id       Publisher GUID to avoid API throttling
  -l log_path           Path of log file
  -f                    Output to file.
  -fP file_output_path  Path of directory of output files
  -g                    Output to graylog.
  -gA graylog_address   Address of graylog server.
  -gP graylog_port      Port of graylog server.
  -d                    Enable debug logging (large log files and lower performance)
```